What’s new What’s new 26.7.0.cl Cloud 26.7.0.cl Cloud (Latest) 26.6.0.cl Cloud 26.5.0.cl Cloud 26.4.0.cl Cloud Software 26.3.0.sw Software (Latest) 10.10.0.sw Software 10.1.0.sw Software Resources Learn Docs ThoughtSpot Analytics product documentation Training ThoughtSpot Embedded learning paths Connect Discord Chat with the dev community Community Connect with other developers Support Get help from ThoughtSpot GitHub Developer guides Embedding REST APIs MCP server SpotterCode What&#x27;s new Developer guides 26.7.0.cl Cloud 26.7.0.cl Cloud (Latest) 26.6.0.cl Cloud 26.5.0.cl Cloud 26.4.0.cl Cloud Software 26.3.0.sw Software (Latest) 10.10.0.sw Software 10.1.0.sw Software AskDocs Beta Copy page What’s new Table of Contents July 2026 June 2026 May 2026 April 2026 March 2026 February 2026 January 2026 This page lists new features, enhancements, and deprecated functionality introduced for ThoughtSpot Embedded instances in 2026. For information about the features introduced in the previous release versions, see release history . July 2026 🔗 Release version : ThoughtSpot Cloud 26.7.0.cl Upgrade notes : No breaking changes Recommended SDK versions : Visual Embed SDK v1.50.0 and later Version 26.7.0.cl SpotterViz for Liveboards Early Access 🔗 You can now use SpotterViz in your embedding application to help your users build and edit Liveboards through a conversational interface. Instead of manually configuring charts and layouts, your users can describe what they want and SpotterViz generates the Liveboard for them, including the new tabs, chart types, data filters, and scheduled deliveries. For SpotterViz customization in embedded view, the Visual Embed SDK also provides several options to customize the SpotterViz panel experience. For more information, see SpotterViz in embedded Liveboards . Spotter embedding 🔗 Spotter file upload in embedded apps Applications embedding the Spotter interface can now allow their users to upload files directly in the Spotter chat panel . Spotter conversation history You can now save your Spotter conversation and manage chat history using Spotter AI REST APIs. For more information, see APIs for managing saved conversations . Spotter Agent instructions You can configure and retrieve behavioral instructions for the Spotter agent using REST APIs. For more information, see Spotter AI agent instructions APIs . Focused home page experience Early Access 🔗 In full application embedding with the V3 navigation and home page experience, ThoughtSpot provides an additional option to switch to the V4 focused home page experience. The focused home page experience provides a streamlined, contemporary experience along with the Spotter panel. For more information, see Customize full application embedding . Webhooks enhancements 🔗 ThoughtSpot introduces the following features and enhancements for webhook configuration and management: New Webhooks page in the UI Early Access The Develop page now includes a dedicated Webhooks page for creating, managing, and monitoring webhooks within the Org context. Storage configuration retrieval The GET /api/rest/2.0/webhooks/storage-config REST API endpoint to get storage configuration details . GCS storage configuration for webhook delivery Administrators can now configure Google Cloud Storage (GCS) buckets as a storage destination for webhook payload delivery on GCP-hosted ThoughtSpot clusters. Webhook activation and deactivation You can enable or disable a webhook connection in the UI or through REST API. Selective configuration reset The webhook update API endpoint supports the reset_options parameter to remove specific optional configuration sections without replacing the full webhook configuration. SpotterCode Agent in Visual Embed Playground Early Access 🔗 The Visual Embed SDK Playground now includes SpotterCode Agent, an AI-powered coding assistant. The SpotterCode panel displays pre-built prompts relevant to the component you are embedding, a prompt interface for user queries, and generates embed code. It generates boilerplate code automatically, accelerates building code and iterating embed configurations. For more information, see Using SpotterCode in the Playground . Org isolation for per-org SAML and OIDC authentication 🔗 ThoughtSpot now enforces strict org isolation when users authenticate through a per-org identity provider (IdP). When a per-org IdP sends SAML or OIDC group claims that reference Orgs outside its authorized scope, ThoughtSpot silently drops those claims and records them as security audit events. This prevents a rogue IdP administrator in one Org from using group assertions to gain unauthorized access to another Org. Manually-assigned existing Org memberships are unaffected. For more information, see SSO and Org isolation . Visual Embed SDK 🔗 The Visual Embed SDK version 1.50.0 includes several new features and enhancements. For more information, see the Visual Embed changelog . REST API v2 🔗 For information about REST API v2 enhancements in this release, see the REST API v2.0 changelog . June 2026 🔗 Release version : ThoughtSpot Cloud 26.6.0.cl Upgrade notes : No breaking changes. Recommended SDK versions : Visual Embed SDK v1.49.0 and later Version 26.6.0.cl Chart and table overrides New 🔗 You can now apply visualization overrides to charts and tables generated from a search query in ThoughtSpot search and full application embedding. The visualOverrides property in SearchViewConfig and AppViewConfig allows developers to apply at the embed initialization time: Chart overrides Control legend visibility and position, data label display and per-column filter thresholds, regression lines, grid lines, axis range and label settings, series colors, and conditional formatting rules including font and background styling. Table overrides Control column visibility, text wrapping, row height and padding density, table theme, and column summary visibility with per-column exceptions. For more information, see Configuring visualization overrides . Spotter AI and embedding enhancements New 🔗 This release introduces the following enhancements for Spotter AI workflows and embedded Spotter applications. Spotter embedding: Spotter now includes data literacy skills that help users understand the underlying data model. Users can ask Spotter to explain available data sources, fields, and relationships in plain language within a conversation session. Spotter AI APIs: New API endpoint stop and cancel a long-running Spotter response . Developer page enhancements 🔗 The Develop page in the ThoughtSpot UI has been updated with the following enhancements: The Custom actions list page now shows the code-based custom actions configured using the Visual Embed SDK. Removal of REST API v1 The legacy REST Playground v1 has been removed from the left navigation. This change does not affect your current integrations with v1 REST API. ThoughtSpot recommends that you update your integration workflows to use REST API v2. For more information, see REST API v1 to v2 migration . Removal of GraphQL playgrounds The menu link to the GraphQL playground has been removed from the UI. Liveboard browser cache refresh 🔗 To improve load performance and reduce, you can now enable the Liveboard cache option with a Refresh button to allow your users to clear cache and refresh visualization data when required. For more information, see Liveboard browser cache refresh . Visual Embed SDK 🔗 The Visual Embed SDK version 1.49.0 includes several new features and enhancements. For more information, see the Visual Embed changelog . REST API v2 🔗 This release introduces new API endpoints for Spotter, connections and trusted authentication. For information about REST API v2 enhancements, see the REST API v2.0 changelog . May 2026 🔗 Release version : ThoughtSpot Cloud 26.5.0.cl Upgrade notes : ⚠️ Includes breaking changes to Spotter APIs. Refer to the REST API changelog for more information. Recommended SDK versions : Visual Embed SDK v1.48.0 and later Version 26.5.0.cl Liveboard downloads 🔗 Continuous Liveboard PDF export Beta In PDF downloads, Liveboard tabs can now be rendered in a single page matching the UI layout. This feature can be enabled by setting isContinuousLiveboardPDFEnabled to true in the SDK. Setting this flag to false returns to the paginated PDF view. Liveboard download in XLSX and CSV formats Embedded Liveboards can now be downloaded in the PDF, XLSX and CSV file formats. To enable this feature, ensure that the isLiveboardXLSXCSVDownloadEnabled parameter is set to true . Excel exports for pivot tables Pivot table visualizations can now be exported to Excel format. For more information, see Liveboard download options . Visualization edit interface within the Liveboard view 🔗 Users can now edit the underlying query of an answer directly within the Liveboard. When this feature is enabled, the edit button for visualization appears in the answer’s floating toolbar when the Liveboard is opened in the edit mode. Clicking the edit button opens the Answer interface preloaded with the answer’s current query context. You can make the edits and save the changes without leaving the Liveboard. KPI charts in embedded Liveboards 🔗 Embedded Liveboards support advanced controls KPI chart customization. For more information, see KPI charts . Per-org and per-user timezone control via variables Beta 🔗 You can centrally control timezone behavior per org and per user in embedded deployments using the new template variable ts_user_timezone and Variable APIs. For multi-org and multi-tenant environments, each tenant org and user can be configured independently, guaranteeing isolation and consistency of time-based analytics across regions. Administrators can reference the timezone variable in formulas to render and filter timestamp data correctly for each embedded user, without separate content per region. Timezone-aware keyword filtering Beta 🔗 ThoughtSpot now supports resolving relative date and time keywords, such as today , yesterday , and last 7 days , using a configurable per-user or per-Org timezone, instead of the system default timezone on a ThoughtSpot instance. This feature eliminates timezone-based inconsistencies in multi-region embedded deployments and removes the need for custom workarounds. For more information, see Timezone-aware keywords and filters . Note The timezone awareness feature is in Beta and disabled by default. To enable this feature, contact ThoughtSpot Support. Visual Embed SDK 🔗 The Visual Embed SDK version 1.48.0 includes several new features and enhancements. For more information, see the Visual Embed changelog . REST API v2 🔗 This release introduces new Spotter API endpoints and modifications to the agent conversation APIs, and deprecates legacy agent endpoints. For information about REST API v2 enhancements, see the REST API v2.0 changelog . April 2026 🔗 Release version : ThoughtSpot Cloud 26.4.0.cl Upgrade notes : ⚠️ Variable update and delete API and metadata parameterization endpoints are deprecated and replaced with new API endpoints. Refer to REST API changelog and Deprecation announcements . Recommended SDK versions : Visual Embed SDK v1.47.0 and later Version 26.4.0.cl Theme builder in AI mode 🔗 The Theme Builder now has an AI mode that enables developers to explore and preview style customizations for their embedded application’s branding using natural language instructions and uploaded brand assets. You can execute style updates such as applying colors directly from a PDF branding guide, updating all button shapes with higher contrast, matching a header to a dark background based on a screenshot, or importing typography and spacing from a JSON file. In the AI mode, Theme builder interprets your intent and applies the changes instantly. For more information, see Theme builder . Webhook integration 🔗 In this release version, the following enhancements are introduced in the webhook configuration and delivery status monitoring workflows: Channel validation Administrators can verify the connection status of a webhook channel by sending a test payload in a POST request to the /api/rest/2.0/system/communication-channels/validate REST API endpoint. For more information, see Webhook channel validation . Monitor webhook delivery Administrators can also monitor the status of a webhook delivery via a POST /api/rest/2.0/jobs/history/communication-channels/search API request. For more information, see Monitor webhook delivery and job status . Support for custom HTTP headers in webhook requests When configuring or updating a webhook, you can now specify custom headers to include in every outbound request, in addition to the standard HTTP and authentication headers that ThoughtSpot sends. For more information, refer to the webhook documentation . Spotter embed enhancements 🔗 You can now customize the appearance and contents of the chat history sidebar panel in Spotter embedding. You can also customize the branding and logo in the Spotter chat interface. For more information, see Customizing chat history sidebar and Hiding logo and brand label in Spotter chat interface . Liveboard enhancements 🔗 The following enhancements are introduced in Liveboard export and filtering workflows. Embedding a personalized Liveboard view You can now embed a saved personalized Liveboard view using the personalizedViewId and load it along with the liveboardId in your app. Centralized filter modal Liveboard users can modify multiple filters and parameters in a single session using the centralized filter modal. This is an early access feature and disabled by default on ThoughtSpot embedded instances. To enable this feature on embedded Liveboards, set the isCentralizedLiveboardFilterUXEnabled to true . Current period inclusion in rolling date filters The rolling date filters with the Last &lt;N&gt; &lt;Period&gt; and Next &lt;N&gt; &lt;Period&gt; filter types support including current period. Developers can disable, show, or hide this option using isThisPeriodInDateFiltersEnabled or Action.IncludeCurrentPeriod . Liveboard PNG export The PNG export workflow in the /api/rest/2.0/report/liveboard REST API is enhanced to provide high-resolution PNG files. The legacy PNG workflow is deprecated in 26.4.0.cl. For more information about breaking changes and deprecation guidelines, see Deprecation announcements . For information about the new PNG download workflow, see Liveboard report API documentation . Full app embedding 🔗 In full application embedded deployments with the V3 navigation and home page experience, the default list page experience is set to ListPage v3 experience. The ListPage V3 experience provides a refreshed list layout and styling, including the following enhancements: The Views column to show the number of views for each object. Sorting options for Name , Author , and Views columns. Filters can be added by clicking the column header without opening the filter modal. This option is available for Favorites , Views columns, and Verified columns. For more information, see List page customization . Variable API 🔗 The variable REST API provides new API endpoints for the following bulk operations: Bulk deletion: You can now delete multiple variables in a single API request using the /api/rest/2.0/template/variables/delete endpoint. Batch update of variable values: You can now assign and update multiple values to a variable in a single API request using the /api/rest/2.0/template/variables/{identifier}/update-values endpoint. Note The /api/rest/2.0/template/variables/update-values and /api/rest/2.0/template/variables/{identifier}/delete endpoints are now deprecated. Use the new /api/rest/2.0/template/variables/{identifier}/update-values and /api/rest/2.0/template/variables/delete endpoints for the variable update and delete operations instead. For more information, see Variables documentation . Metadata parameterization 🔗 You can now parameterize multiple properties of metadata objects using POST /api/rest/2.0/metadata/parameterize-fields . The legacy endpoint /api/rest/2.0/metadata/parameterize is deprecated in 26.4.0.cl and later versions, and is replaced with the new endpoint to allow updating multiple fields in a single API request. For more information, see Metadata parameterization documentation . Collections Beta 🔗 ThoughtSpot embedded users can now use REST APIs v2 to organize different ThoughtSpot objects into organizational containers called Collections . These objects can be Liveboards, Answers, data models, tables, and even other Collections. For more information, see Collections . Note These APIs are currently in beta and turned off by default on ThoughtSpot instances. To enable this feature on your instance, contact ThoughtSpot Support. Visual Embed SDK 🔗 For information about the new features and enhancements introduced in Visual Embed SDK version 1.46.0, see the Visual Embed changelog . REST API v2 🔗 For information about REST API v2 enhancements, see the REST API v2.0 changelog . March 2026 🔗 Release version : ThoughtSpot Cloud 26.3.0.cl Upgrade notes : ⚠️ Includes feature deprecations. Refer to REST API changelog and Deprecation announcements . Recommended SDK versions : Visual Embed SDK v1.46.0 and later Version 26.3.0.cl Amazon S3 storage destination for webhook delivery 🔗 You can now configure ThoughtSpot to deliver webhook payloads and attachments directly into your own Amazon S3 storage using secure AWS cross-account access. To enable this integration, your AWS administrator must create an IAM role with S3 permissions and trust policy, and then register a webhook in ThoughtSpot to deliver the payloads and attachments directly to your S3 bucket. For more information, see Amazon S3 storage integration for webhook delivery . Host event enhancements for context-aware routing 🔗 HostEvents in the Visual Embed SDK are enhanced to improve event routing and context targeting in ThoughtSpot embedded applications. Developers can use the page context framework in the SDK to route host events to a specific UI layer and align user experience with the product UI behavior in multi-modal contexts. For more information, see Context-based execution of host events . JWT-based ABAC implementation 🔗 The legacy JWT-based approach that uses filter_rules and parameter_values to implement Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC) is deprecated. As part of this deprecation, the following changes have been introduced to the custom authentication token API workflow and REST API Playground: The filter_rules parameter on the custom token authentication page in the REST API Playground is no longer available for new configurations. This change does not affect your existing implementation. The parameter_values property is not deprecated in version 26.3.0.cl and remains supported until further notice. However, using parameter values for row-level security use cases will ultimately be deprecated in an upcoming release. Existing ABAC implementations that use filter_rules will continue to function until further notice. However, we strongly recommend migrating your legacy ABAC implementation to the ABAC via RLS method that uses custom variables. For migration steps, refer to the ABAC migration guide . For new deployments, use ABAC via RLS with custom variables and pass data security attributes through the variable_values property in the custom access token, and define your RLS rules based on those variables. For more information, see ABAC via RLS . Spotter coaching access across published Orgs 🔗 Starting with the 26.3.0.cl release, ThoughtSpot supports publishing Spotter coaching information to other Orgs. Coaching changes from the primary Org are synchronized with the data models published in secondary Orgs. Administrators and users with edit access to data models can programmatically control user access to Spotter coaching information using the object privilege REST API endpoint, /api/rest/2.0/security/metadata/manage-object-privilege . They can assign SPOTTER_COACHING_PRIVILEGE to other users and user groups, allowing access to the coaching information without requiring data model editing or administration privileges. Users and groups with SPOTTER_COACHING_PRIVILEGE can import and export coaching TML on data models in the source and destination Orgs where the model is published, and can also share these objects with other users and groups. For more information, see Spotter data model instructions access . Full application embedding 🔗 The height and aspect ratio of the logo in the top-left corner of the ThoughtSpot application interface have been updated for visual alignment and consistency across pages. This enhancement is available only in the V3 navigation and home page experience. If you have embedded the full application with the V3 navigation experience, you may notice that the logo appears smaller in the top navigation. This is a design update and does not require any configuration changes to your current embedding implementation. However, we recommend that you review the logo size and appearance, and adjust your custom logo if necessary. For information about adding a custom logo image, see Customize application logo and favicon . Visual Embed SDK 🔗 For information about the new features and enhancements introduced in Visual Embed SDK version 1.46.0, see the Visual Embed changelog . REST API v2 🔗 For information about REST API v2 enhancements, see the REST API v2.0 changelog . February 2026 🔗 Release version : ThoughtSpot Cloud 26.2.0.cl Upgrade notes : ⚠️ Includes API parameter deprecations. Refer to REST API changelog and Deprecation announcements . Recommended SDK versions : Visual Embed SDK v1.45.0 and later Version 26.2.0.cl SpotterCode extension for IDEs Early Access 🔗 ThoughtSpot introduces SpotterCode, an AI-powered Model Context Protocol (MCP) extension for Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) such as Cursor, Visual Studio Code, and Claude Code. When integrated, SpotterCode enables the AI agent in the IDE to access ThoughtSpot SDKs and API documentation resources and provide in-context coding assistance to developers embedding ThoughtSpot content within their applications. SpotterCode is available as an Early Access feature and can be integrated with development environments that support MCP servers and tools. For more information, see SpotterCode , Integrating SpotterCode in IDEs , and SpotterCode prompting guide . Spotter 3 experience Early Access 🔗 You can now embed the Spotter 3 experience, which introduces several new capabilities, agentic analytics, and an enhanced user experience. Spotter 3 is an Early Access feature and is disabled by default on ThoughtSpot embedded instances. For more information, see Embed AI Search and Analytics and Spotter embedding documentation . Rate limits for REST APIs 🔗 To prevent excessive requests from reaching application servers and ensure API stability and service quality for REST API users, ThoughtSpot enforces rate limits on public API requests per client IP. These limits are applied globally at the cluster level for all public API requests, including calls to both REST API v1 and v2 endpoints. For more information, see Rate limits for REST APIs . Security settings via REST APIs 🔗 Security settings that ensure data security and a seamless embedded user experience can now be configured through REST APIs v2. Administrators and developers can configure allowlists for: Content Security Policy (CSP) Cross-origin Resource Sharing (CORS) Authentication attributes Access control settings For more information, see Security Settings . WebSocket support for external tools 🔗 ThoughtSpot supports secure WebSocket ( wss:// ) endpoints for external tool script integrations, for example, tools that open WebSocket connections from the browser. To allow a WebSocket host, add the corresponding wss:// URL to both your CSP allowlists. Only hosts explicitly listed with the wss:// protocol are permitted. Existing https:// entries in the allowlists remain unchanged and continue to function as expected. For more information, see External tools and script integration . Visual Embed SDK 🔗 For information about the new features and enhancements introduced in Visual Embed SDK version 1.45.0, see the Visual Embed changelog . REST API v2 🔗 For information about REST API v2 enhancements, see the REST API v2.0 changelog . January 2026 🔗 Release version : ThoughtSpot Cloud 10.15.0.cl Upgrade notes : No breaking changes. Recommended SDK versions : Visual Embed SDK v1.44.0 and later Version 10.15.0.cl Theme Builder 🔗 Theme Builder is now generally available (GA) and will be rolled out to all ThoughtSpot instances in customer deployments over the next few weeks. When this feature is enabled on your instance, you can access it from the Develop page in ThoughtSpot and use it to customize styles and UX themes directly within the product. For more information, see Theme Builder . V3 navigation and home page experience 🔗 The new V3 navigation and home page experience is now generally available (GA) and can be enabled on ThoughtSpot embedded instances. The default UI experience in full application embedding remains the classic (V1) experience until further notice. Developers embedding the full ThoughtSpot application can enable the V3 experience in their applications by setting the appropriate configuration options in their embed code. For more information, see Customizing full application embedding . Formula variables in RLS rules 🔗 You can now create formula variables using the Variable REST API and use these variables in RLS rules for a specific data context and in ABAC token requests to dynamically assign security attributes to users. For more information, see ABAC via RLS with variables . Spotter APIs 🔗 ThoughtSpot introduces new REST APIs for the following Spotter workflows: To send queries to a conversation session with the Spotter agent To set natural language (NL) instructions on a model to coach the Spotter system To fetch NL instructions configured on a model For more information, see Spotter APIs . Embed events and parameters to intercept API calls 🔗 You can now intercept API calls from the embedded ThoughtSpot application using the interceptUrls attribute in the Visual Embed SDK. This feature lets you control API requests in your embedding application and use embed events to modify, block, or handle requests before they are sent to the backend. For more information, see Intercept API calls and search requests . Icon customization enhancements 🔗 You can now replace or customize the chart switcher toggle and icons in the Charts drawer on an Answer or visualization page using SVG sprites. Previously, these icons were fixed to ThoughtSpot defaults and were not configurable. In the new version, these icons are available as SVG components and can be replaced by developers through the icon customization framework as needed. Mobile Embed SDK 🔗 The SDKs for embedding ThoughtSpot components in mobile apps are now Generally Available (GA). For more information about the SDKs and how to embed a ThoughtSpot component in a mobile app, see Mobile embed documentation . Visual Embed SDK 🔗 For information about the new features and enhancements introduced in Visual Embed SDK version 1.44.0, see Visual Embed changelog . REST API 🔗 For information about REST API v2 enhancements, see REST API v2.0 changelog . © 2026 ThoughtSpot Inc. All Rights Reserved.
